# CS300portfolio
What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?
The main objective for the projects in this course was to determine which data structure would be best to hold the information for a list of courses, compare their runtimes, and create a running application using one of three data structures: hash tables, linked list, or binary search tree.
How did you approach this problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.
In order to approach this problem, I looked at the different pseudocodes for each data structure, the data given to complete the assignment, and the runtimes for each structure. Each data structure is suited to hold and sort different kinds of data, and using a binary tree seemed to me to be the most logical of the three choices, as each node can hold the data needed and searching and sorting through the tree is quite simple.
How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?
I looked at work already completed during the course, as well as the textbook work, and I used the internet to research topics I wasn't quite sure about or didn't have enough information on. Specifically, I had difficulty reading the data file and separating the different items of data into their own objects. A simple approach using getline() was not quite working, and I ended up having to separate part of each line into its own string stream to separate further.
How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?
I definitely feel as though I have a much better grasp on the different data structures, and I've learned the comments on my code are not just for other peoples' benefit, but for my own as well to keep track of my work when I need to step away for a moment and remember where I left off. As this was the first assignment in my degree program that I was able to make the code completely from scratch, I have a new understanding and appreciation for larger programs that take multiple people to complete.
How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
As I mentioned in the previous question, I have a new understanding of comments as not only a guide for others reading my code, but for myself to keep track of my progress and make it simple to understand should I need to go back and reread or write a piece of my program. 

All in all, I really enjoyed this assignment, specifically project 2. Pseudocode really isn't my cup of tea, but it is essential for having a headstart on the actual program. I had a lot of fun coding the application from scratch, despite the difficulties I ran into, and I really loved solving the issues I ran into.
